Document how to change GC logging behaviour (#52879)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/setup/important-settings/gc-logging.asciidoc

[[gc-logging]]
=== GC logging

By default, {es} enables GC logs. These are configured in

> <<jvm-options,`jvm.options`>> and default to the same default location as

Reviewer: This sounds a big redundant:
> default to the same default location

Maybe:
> **output** to the same default location

> the Elasticsearch logs. The default configuration rotates the logs every 64

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the {es} logs. The default configuration rotates the logs every 64
```

MB and can consume up to 2 GB of disk space.

You can change the default GC logging configuration. Since the preferred
method of <<jvm-options,configuring JVM options>> is not to edit the
default `jvm.options` file, you will need to configure the JVM first to
disable GC logging, in order to cancel out the default {es} configuration,
and then to re-enable logging as you require. See
https://openjdk.java.net/jeps/158[JEP 158: Unified JVM Logging] for details

> of how to configure logging.

Reviewer: I think a slight reorder and formatting would help here:

```
We do not recommend changing the default `jvm.options` file to change the GC
logging configuration. Instead, we recommend you:

. Configure the JVM to disable GC logging using the default configuration.
. Reconfigure JVM logging as described in
  https://openjdk.java.net/jeps/158[JEP 158: Unified JVM Logging].
. Re-enable GC logging.
```

It may also be helpful to briefly mention or link to:

1.  Why we discourage editing the `jvm.options` file.
2. How to disable and re-enable GC logging.

For example, if you are running {es} using <<docker,Docker>>, you can
choose to send GC logs to standard error (`stderr`) and let your container
orchestrator handle the output. If you were using the `ES_JAVA_OPTS`
environment variable, you would specify:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------
docker run -e ES_JAVA_OPTS="-Xlog:disable -Xlog:gc=debug:stderr" # etc

> --------------------------------------------

Reviewer: Is there a reason why this is an example vs. regular guidance?

If it could just be regular guidance, I would change as follows:

```
If you use <<docker,Docker>> to run {es}, you can send GC logs to standard error
(`stderr`) and let your container orchestrator handle the output. If using the
`ES_JAVA_OPTS` environment variable, specify:

...
```

[[gc-logging]]
=== GC logging

By default, {es} enables GC logs. These are configured in
<<jvm-options,`jvm.options`>> and output to the same default location as
the {es} logs. The default configuration rotates the logs every 64 MB and
can consume up to 2 GB of disk space.

You can reconfigure JVM logging using the command line options described in
https://openjdk.java.net/jeps/158[JEP 158: Unified JVM Logging]. Unless you
change the default `jvm.options` file directly, you may find that the {es}
default configuration is applied in addition to your own settings. In this

> case, you must first disable logging by supplying the `-Xlog:disable`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
change the default `jvm.options` file directly, the {es} default configuration
is applied in addition to your own settings. To disable the default
configuration, first disable logging by supplying the `-Xlog:disable`
```

> option, then supply your own command line options. Note that this disables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
option, then supply your own command line options. This disables
```

__all__ JVM logging, so be sure to review the available options and enable
everything that you require.

> See also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See 
```

https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/13/docs/specs/man/java.html#enable-logging-with-the-jvm-unified-logging-framework[Enable
Logging with the JVM Unified Logging Framework], which includes more

> options not contained in the original JEP.

Reviewer: > , which includes more options not contained in the original JEP.

I'd inverse the order here:

> To see more options not contained in the original JEP, see ...

==== Examples

* Change the default GC log output location to `/opt/my-app/gc.log` by
  creating `$ES_HOME/config/jvm.options.d/gc.options` with some sample
  options:
+
[source,shell]
--------------------------------------------
# Turn off all previous logging configuratons
-Xlog:disable

# Default settings from JEP 158, but with `utctime` instead of `uptime` to match the next line
-Xlog:all=warning:stderr:utctime,level,tags

# Enable GC logging to a custom location with a variety of options
-Xlog:gc*,gc+age=trace,safepoint:file=/opt/my-app/gc.log:utctime,pid,tags:filecount=32,filesize=64m
--------------------------------------------

* Configure an {es} <<docker,Docker container>> to send GC debug logs to

>   standard error (`stderr`), in order to let the container orchestrator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  standard error (`stderr`). This lets the container orchestrator
```
